Table of Contents
1…………...Participants
2…………...Narrative
2a………….Enhancing the Humanities
2b………….Environmental Scan
2c………….History of the Project
2d………….Work Plan
2e………….Final Product and Dissemination
3…………...Biographies
4…………...Appendices

## 1. List of participants

Kylie Britt
University of Richmond

## 2. Narrative

### 2a. Enhancing the Humanities

The Jewish Culture Festival (JCF) in Kazimierz, Kraków, Poland, was founded in 1988 as primarily a film festival to broadcast a narrative about Polish Jews that had been seemingly erased from history during the Communist regime. In its thirty-years of festivals, the JCF has been a popular place to celebrate Jewish culture in a broader sense than just Poland, involving organizers from around the world and focusing workshops on international topics. As attendants gather to enjoy workshops, food, art, concerts, and worship, a new narrative about Jewish identity is being formed. Each year, the old Jewish quarter of Kraków becomes a joyful site of memorialization and cultural production.
Studies on the impact of festivals as sites of cultural production and celebration have indicated the power of large gatherings in ascribing meaning to festivals, and providing space for the formation of identity and culture. Alison Booth’s research on “Negotiating diasporic culture: festival collaborations and production networks” investigates the intercultural networks that are formed as a result of festival planning. Booth’s work explores various Asian-Pacific cultural festivals in New Zealand that have served as places for networking, sharing culture, and ultimately broadening diasporic identities. Ruth Ellen Gruber, an eminent scholar on Jewish memory in Poland and a journalist who has reviewed the Jewish Culture Festival many times, writes about the making and policing of an “authentic” Jewish culture and identity at these festivals. From an article about the Jewish Culture Festival in 1995:
"The festival is not just nostalgia," said Michael Alpert, a member of the Brave Old World klezmer group and musical consultant to the festival. "It is part of the continuing or returning life of Jewish Krakow. It is partly a life of Jewish memory, but the festival is one of the few venues in the world that brings together young culture makers of the new Yiddish culture." 
Here Gruber shares the thoughts of a festival participant, and demonstrates the importance of the festival to contemporary cultural production and identity building. Gruber’s scholarship lays the foundation for a study on the cultural impact of the Jewish Culture Festival using digital humanities methods to explore new angles. 
Exploring the role of the Jewish Culture Festival as a space for cultural production, memory-shaping, and identity formation by using digital techniques can enhance the scholarship which already surrounds the topic. A text analysis of the festival’s recent programs may provide insight into common themes that guide the whole festival and therefore the identity which it shapes and reflects. A spatial analysis of festival attendants, performers, and collaborators could elucidate new interpretations of the culture being celebrated and produced. These digital humanities methods will lend new lenses with which to investigate the importance of the Jewish Culture Festival to Polish and transnational Jewish identity.
A text analysis, or “macroanalysis” of the festival documents is limited by the number of programs available, as well as by the nature of the tools used. Programs back to 2010, with some chronological gaps, have been archived on the JCF’s website, though the festival dates back to 1988. A close look at those earliest festivals may have given a better indication as to the original intention of the festival, though there is information available to supplement this missing data. Janus Makuch, the non-Jewish founder of the festival, has given many interviews, statements, and insights to the reasoning behind organizing such a large-scale festival in a location so desolated by Jews. In addition to overcoming limitations in the corpus, restrictions of the text analysis tools itself raise questions of an adaptive method.
Voyant web tools can perform a variety of text analyses, including word frequency lists and frequency density plots. However, it may be difficult to elucidate any interesting patterns when using a tool that may be greatly affected by the structure of the documents. Ideally, a topic model could also be performed on this corpus of programs, which might illustrate some of the main themes in the festival’s history. Despite some limitations with technique and available data, a textual analysis could be very insightful as to the importance of the festival for Jewish culture in Poland and beyond.
A spatial analysis of the locations of collaborators is meant to assist in understanding the type of culture being produced. Only the collaborators with stated national affiliations will be included in this analysis, which may leave out those whose locations are not represented. For instance, those organizers from Poland may not be described as distinctly Polish if readers are supposed to assume the unwritten nationality based on the festival’s central location. A visual analysis of those collaborators available, however, might demonstrate a bias for a certain region, which could be reflected in the type of culture produced at the Jewish Culture Festival. 
The Jewish Culture Festival committee has recently commissioned the writing of three novels about the neighborhood of Kazimierz, where the festival takes place annually. The project, called O_Kaz, may offer insight into the connection of the festival to Kazimierz, its history, and its identity. As Kazimierz was a predominantly Jewish quarter of Krakow before 1941, when Jews were forcibly relocated to the Krakow ghetto, the neighborhood has historical connections to Jewish culture. The Jewish Culture Festival may be located in Kazimierz as a way to memorialize history and continue the cultural production that left off in 1941, and investigating the O_Kaz novels will look into the important connection between the festival and its location. 
This grant would provide the support for in-depth analysis of the impact of this festival, and support for understanding contemporary Jewish dialogue within a site cultural production. 

### 2b. Environmental Scan 
Similar projects in the fields of cultural and festival studies have been performed, but none connected particularly to the Jewish Culture Festival in Krakow. 
Cultural studies enhanced by digitization of old documents include projects like “Key Documents of German-Jewish History. A Digital Source Edition” and “The Pinkassim Project.” The former makes accessible documents that played an important role in defining German-Jewish history from the 17th century, and adds analysis in the visual representation of chronological and spatial aspects of the documents featured. The textual analysis planned for the Jewish Culture Festival project will add another layer to the archive of festival programs provided by the JCF website. A spatial representation of collaboration will contribute an additional kind of analysis. 
“The Pinkassim Project” represents European Jewish communities by providing a digital archive of records and registers, known in Hebrew as pinkassim. From the project website, “In its first phase, the Pinkassim Project deals just with the pinkassim created by the community and regional councils and has also limited itself to those created in the early modern period (c.1500-1800).” The project proposed for this grant seeks to step beyond this rudimentary evidence of community. 
Projects that focus on the cultural impact of festivals offer a different lens for my analysis of the Jewish Culture Festival. A Council of Public Liberal Arts Colleges seminar on festivals and festival research tasked six students with collecting ethnographic data and producing a website describing the importance of the six respective festivals researched. In particular, one site explored the Glendi International Food Festival in Santa Rosa, California, and its importance to the Greek Orthodox community in carrying on traditions and culture. The interviews with Glendi organizers and participants emphasize the role of youth in reinvigorating what can feel like a stagnant culture. I hope to bring this type of cultural analysis into my study of the Jewish Culture Festival in Krakow. Though I will not be performing ethnographic research, I hope to make some conclusions about cultural production at the JCF by doing a text analysis of the programs available. 
A spatial analysis connecting the JCF to its transnational collaborators will be something new when considering the culture produced at festivals. The global component of the festival may have specific impacts on the festival’s themes and considerations. This analysis will provide a new lens for exploring festival importance and organization. 
In addition, the O_Kaz project offers a contemporary corpus of explorations between the festival and space. The analysis of these novels will investigate new aspects to the Jewish Culture Festival’s impact, and provide a unique insight into the JCF that other festivals do not have available without the extensive collection of ethnographic data. 
The current research into festival studies and Jewish history and memorialization are limited in scope and depth. This project seeks to explore contemporary Jewish cultural production by closely examining the Jewish Culture Festival using digital humanities methods, and will contribute greatly to the humanities subjects to which it is tied. 

### 2c. History of the Project
This project stems from an interest in and study of the history of Jewish Poles and Jewish-Polish relations. By looking at the past, I was interested in learning more about present Jewish culture in Poland, and particularly how that exists within a Jewish-Polish dialogue. The Jewish Culture Festival offers an opportunity for analysis of a site of cultural production, and a record of present-day Jewish conversation topics and themes. 
The programs available from the Jewish Culture Festival’s website have been collected and converted into plain text files to use for text analysis.  Within these programs are the titles and descriptions of workshops, names of featured artists, musicians, and guests, and any other specific information about that years’ festival. In addition, the names of those who have contributed to the planning of the festival have been collected for a spatial analysis. The organizers will be mapped based on location (nation), which may provide insight into the international scope of the festival, and what that means for the production of contemporary Jewish culture. 
	An analysis of this festival may be useful for advocating for its continued funding, and recognizing it as an important actor in contemporary Jewish culture-making. Critical reception of this project may also lead to changes within the organizational structure and planning of the festival to correct any biases found in the analysis. 

### 2d. Work Plan
The collection and “scrubbing” of the programs for text analysis will be the first task, and a preliminary look into the corpus should shed light on any errors in text organization or point to any additional methods of analysis. The text analysis and topic modeling of the programs will also be performed. Some guiding questions will include: What themes of Jewish identity are most associated with the Jewish Culture Festival in Kazimierz? Have these themes changed over the 30 years of the JCF? Do these themes reflect popular topics within Jewish/Polish dialogue? How are history and memory discussed as part of the festival?
The spatial analysis will be performed by collecting data from the programs on the national identity of performers, workshop leaders, artists, and collaborators. Statistics on the relative frequencies of those national identities reflected in the documents will be done to point to any patterns or trends over time. Some guiding questions will include: Participants of which nations influence the Jewish Culture Festival the most? Does the representation of different national identities coincide with the topics being discussed or celebrated? How does the international scope of the festival contribute to its process of cultural production?
As the commissioned O_Kaz novels become available, a text analysis of those documents will be completed as well. The patterns and themes of the books will be studied in connection to the Kazimierz neighborhood, and an analysis of the connection between space, place, and the festival will be performed. Some guiding questions will include: Is Kazimierz depicted as a site of vibrant contemporary cultural (Jewish) production? What do the descriptions of Kazimierz tell readers about the Jewish identity of the place? 

### 2e. Final Product & Dissemination (500-1000)
The culmination of the research and analyses of this project will take several forms. A website, to act as a partner to the Jewish Culture Festival website, will offer insight to visitors about the cultural production taking place at the festival each year: the impact of participation by national identity, the influence of Jewish-Polish history, and what is being changed in Kazimierz. The website will also feature an interactive map based on the spatial analysis of festival participants. Users will be able to see the change in national representation by year, and be directed to more information about particular years’ festivals to connect the map with the themes outlined in the programs. The conversation between the spatial analysis and the text analyses (of the programs and the O_Kaz novels) will be made clear and easy to navigate for those wishing to learn more about the importance of the Jewish Culture Festival. 
In addition to the website, this project could be the basis of a workshop at the Jewish Culture Festival. The research about the impact of the festival as a site of cultural production may be very meaningful to organizers, participants, and attendees. An awareness of the festival’s impact could influence the way festival organizers approach planning, perhaps to focus on underrepresented themes. The spatial analysis may particularly incite change if it can promote more transnational collaboration with those countries that are not currently represented at the JCF. An increase in national representation may allow for a broader platform for cultural sharing and transnational identity and community-building.
In academic circles, this project will raise awareness about the importance of festival studies. Many cultural and other festivals are overlooked sites of community, identity, and cultural production. A look into the Jewish Cultural Festival may prompt research into other festivals, and elucidate important information about different cultures and communities

## 3. Biographies

Kylie Britt is an undergraduate student at the University of Richmond. She studies Chemistry, Women’s Studies, and History, with an interest in identity-shaping and identity-based community politics. Her previous history research has been focused on identities in the United States, and this project marks her first venture into European history and ethnic identity. 

## 4. Appendices

1 Booth, Allison. “Negotiating diasporic culture: festival collaborations and production networks.” International Journal of Event and Festival Management, 7, no. 2 (2016): 100-116. 
2 Gruber, Ruth Ellen. “In Krakow, a ‘Jewish Woodstock.’” International Herald Tribune, July 19, 1995.
3 “Key Documents of German-Jewish History. A Digital Source Edition,” Institution for the History of German Jews.
4 “The Pinkassim Project,” Israel Batal, et al. 
5 http://course.festivals.coplacdigital.org/uncategorized/hum-473-festivals-course-syllabus/, Council of Public Liberal Arts Colleges
6 Miranda Limonczenko. “Glendi: A Santa Rosa Multi-Cultural Food Festival.” Digital project accessed at:  http://glendi.festivals.coplacdigital.org/

